The Project Gutenberg eBook of Choice Recipes and Menus using Canned Foods,
by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Choice Recipes and Menus using Canned Foods

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: August 15, 2021 [eBook #66069]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson, Lisa Corcoran and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHOICE RECIPES AND MENUS USING
CANNED FOODS ***




                                 Choice
                           Recipes and Menus
                                 using
                              Canned Foods




                      A Guide to Common Can Sizes


    [Illustration: A Guide to Common Can Sizes]

   No. ½ FLAT   Approximately 1 cup   Used principally for salmon.
                7¾ to 8½ oz.
  No. 8Z TALL   Approximately 1 cup   Used for some vegetables and fruits,
                8 oz. (7¾ fl. oz.)    meat and fish products, specialties.
    No. 300     Approximately 1¾ cups Used principally for meats and
                14½ oz. (13½ fl. oz.) specialty items.
   No. 1 TALL   Approximately 2 cups  Used principally for salmon, but
                1 lb. (15 fl. oz.)    some fruits, vegetables and
                                      specialties.
    No. 303     Approximately 2 cups  Used for vegetables, fruits and
                1 lb. (15 fl. oz.)    juices, soups, specialties.
     No. 2      Approximately 2½ cups Used principally for vegetables,
                1 lb. 4 oz. (1 pt. 2  fruits and juices.
                fl. oz.)
     No. 2½     Approximately 3½ cups Used mainly for fruits; also for
                1 lb. 13 oz. (1 pt.   such vegetables as spinach,
                10 fl. oz.)           tomatoes, sauerkraut, beets and
                                      pumpkin.
 No. 3 CYLINDER Approximately 5¾ cups Used primarily for fruit and
                46 oz. (1 qt. 14      vegetable juices.
                fl. oz.)
     No. 10     Approximately 12 cups Used for vegetables and fruits.
                6 lbs. 9 oz. (3 qts.) Commonly called institutional or
                                      restaurant size and is not
                                      ordinarily available in retail
                                      stores.




                           Your Canned Foods


The Home Economics Section of the American Can Company has prepared this
new recipe book to help you use canned foods in a greater variety of
ways.

These recipes have been created in the Canco Testing Kitchen to give you
new food dishes that are colorful, easy to prepare and high in nutritive
value. Simple enough for successful preparation by beginners, they offer
a challenge to the more experienced cook.

The convenient index, “What’s in Your Pantry,” is a successful key to
your menu planning with commercially canned foods.

Extensive research of the American Can Company helps the canners and
packers to develop the finest canned foods; the Canco Testing Kitchen
helps homemakers use these canned foods to the best possible advantage.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                   Menu Planning For Good Nutrition.


Knowledge of the facts for good nutrition without the application will
reap no reward. To produce and maintain good health, daily menus should
include:


EGGS

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

_One each day per person—or at least 3 to 4 a week._

Eggs may be served plain as poached, scrambled, hard-cooked, or in an
omelet; in cooking as soufflés, custards, sauces, breads or cakes and
salads.


LEAN MEAT, POULTRY OR FISH

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

_One or more servings daily. (Fresh, Canned or Frozen)_

Different kinds of meat, poultry and fish are necessary for variety of
food value and flavor. The many canned meats, poultry and fish available
make nutritious meals quick and easy to prepare. Include occasionally on
your menus, liver, kidney, salmon, sardines, tuna, herring or mackerel.


FRUITS

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

_One citrus fruit or juice—or tomato juice. One other fruit. (Canned,
Fresh or Frozen)_

Canned juices and fruits also offer an economical variety to the menu
and can be included easily and quickly to “pep up” appetites.


VEGETABLES

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

_Three or more each day. (Canned, Fresh or Frozen.) One green, leafy or
yellow vegetable. One other vegetable. One potato._

Canned vegetables offer the necessary variety to your menus. There is no
waste to canned vegetables; the entire contents of the can should be
used. It is wise to include one raw vegetable each day, especially salad
greens.


CEREALS, BREADS, AND FLOUR

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

_A cereal every day._

_At least 2 servings of whole grain or enriched white bread._

Whole grain, restored or enriched cereals are important in everyday
meals; use ready-to-eat or cooked, for breakfast with milk and fruit, in
cookies, puddings or in meat and fish loaves. Serve creamed dishes on
toast; make bread stuffings and puddings. Use enriched white flour in
home-made-breads, gravies and sauces.


SWEETS

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

_Use molasses, syrups, honey, jellies, jams, desserts and candies in
moderation to make the diet palatable but not enough to spoil the
appetite for other foods._


MILK

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

_One quart for each child. One pint for each adult. (Fresh or
Evaporated)_

Count one pint of undiluted evaporated milk (a little more than one tall
can) or ¼ pound of dry milk—or ⅓ pound of cheese as having about the
same food value as one quart of fluid milk. For variety, include milk in
your cooked foods, such as soups, creamed or scalloped dishes, ice
creams, custards or other milk desserts. For variety, include cheese,
buttermilk, malted and chocolate milks in your menus.


FATS

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

_Two or more tablespoons butter or vitamin-fortified margarine. Count
salt pork or bacon as a fat._

  However, meals need not be humdrum. Make them interesting, colorful,
  attractive. Vary the preparation of the foods you use; vary the manner
  in which you serve them. Include appealing, nutritious recipes. Your
  family will eat, and at the same time enjoy, the foods which are good
  for them.




                    Choice Luncheon or Supper Menus


For dinner menus, add an appropriate fruit or vegetable juice, fish
cocktail, hors d’oeuvre or one of the many delicious canned soups.
Include milk or milk drinks as well as coffee or tea for the beverage.


Menu #1

                   Hot Tomato Juice Cocktail—Crackers
                     Crabmeat and Macaroni Salad[1]
                            Asparagus Spears
                            Pear Cobbler[1]
                                Beverage


Menu #2

                            Sliced Baked Ham
                 Glazed Carrots and Pineapple Chunks[1]
                              Green Beans
      Assorted Relishes (ripe olives, celery curls, radish roses)
                              Corn Sticks
                                Beverage


Menu #3

                     Quick Corned Beef Hash Loaf[1]
                             Mustard Sauce
                           Whole Kernel Corn
                            Crispy Cole Slaw
                           Assorted Hot Rolls
                       Peaches in Orange Sauce[1]
                                Beverage


Menu #4

                             Sliced Tongue
                       Mustard-Horseradish Sauce
                         Tomatoes with Herbs[1]
                            Peas De Luxe[1]
                          Shoestring Potatoes
                   Old-Fashioned Cherry Shortcakes[1]
                                Beverage


Menu #5

                      Chicken Noodle Casserole[1]
                         Canned Cranberry Sauce
                                Lettuce
                       Roquefort Cheese Dressing
                          Pear-Mint Sundae[1]
                                Beverage


Menu #6

                      Broiled Sardine Sandwich[1]
                       Broiled or Sliced Tomatoes
                                Spinach
                 Pineapple Cream with Crunch Topping[1]
                                Beverage


Menu #7

                       Baked Fruited Pork Loaf[1]
                     Baked Spiced Sweet Potatoes[1]
                     Green Bean and Onion Salad[1]
                       Hot Buttered Corn Muffins
                                Beverage


Menu #8

        Chilled Salmon (or Tuna Fish) with Olive-Celery Sauce[1]
                            Cucumber Slices
                              Radish Roses
                              Deviled Eggs
                           Scalloped Potatoes
                        Cherry-Citrus Compote[1]
                                Brownies
                                Beverage


Menu #9

                         Luncheon Meat Chili[1]
                              Bread Sticks
                            Watercress Salad
                       French Dressing with Herbs
                        Applesauce a la Mode[1]
                                Cookies
                                Beverage


Menu #10

                  Hominy and Vienna Sausage au Gratin
                           Mixed Green Salad
                                 Rolls
                         Pineapple Meringue Pie
                                Beverage


[1]_For recipe, see “What’s in your Pantry” index, pages 10 and 11._




                    Using Commercially Canned Foods


Canned Foods are delicious just as they come from the can. Remember that
canned foods are cooked foods. When heating commercially canned
vegetables follow these directions:

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

1. _Drain the liquid into a saucepan._

2. _Boil it quickly to reduce the amount._

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

3. _Add the vegetable and heat quickly._

4. _Season to the family’s taste and serve._


Instead of reducing the liquid in the can, it may be saved for soups,
sauces, gravies or vegetable cocktails. Do _not_ throw it away as it
contains valuable nutrients.

Many women like to use canned foods as an ingredient of interesting
recipes. The canner has done the first hard work of preparation, so it
is easy to add variety to the menu with very little effort.




           FACTS TO REMEMBER ABOUT COMMERCIALLY CANNED FOODS


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

1. Fruits and vegetables used for canning are especially grown for that
purpose; picked at just the right point of maturity, sealed in cans and
cooked in the briefest possible time after harvesting.

2. Nothing is added to canned fruits except a sugar syrup; and nothing
to canned vegetables except water and sometimes a little salt or sugar
for seasoning.

3. The canning process does not affect the food value of the starches,
sugars, fats and proteins. The canning industry has developed many
methods designed to conserve the vitamins and minerals of the fresh raw
products. Hence, modern commercially canned foods retain in good degree
the food values of the fresh foods used for canning.

4. Canned Food may be safely left in the open can if it is covered and
kept in a refrigerator. This you should do with left-over cooked food
stored in any type of container.

5. The use of commercially canned foods saves many hours of preparation
of raw fruits, vegetables, fish and meats, and also assures no waste.




                         WHAT’S IN YOUR PANTRY?


                                                                  _Page_
  Vegetables
  ASPARAGUS
      Asparagus on Toast                                              13
      Corn and Asparagus Casserole                                    17
      Savory Vegetables                                               12
      Vegetable Juice Cocktails                                       20
  BAKED BEANS
      Creamy Baked Beans                                              13
  BEETS
      Beet Relish Salad                                               13
      Chef’s Salad                                                    23
  CARROTS
      Glazed Carrots and Pineapple Chunks                             14
  CORN
      Casserole of Tuna Fish and Corn                                 34
      Corn a la King                                                  16
      Corn and Asparagus Casserole                                    17
      Corn Chowder                                                    14
      Hominy and Vienna Sausage Au Gratin                             27
  GREEN BEANS
      Green Bean and Onion Salad                                      16
      Hot Spiced Green Beans                                          16
      Savory Vegetables                                               12
      Vegetable Juice Cocktails                                       20
  HOMINY
      Hominy and Vienna Sausage Au Gratin                             27
  KIDNEY BEANS
      Broiled Kidney Bean Sandwich                                    17
      Frankfurter Salad Bowl                                          21
      Luncheon Meat Chili                                             22
  LIMA BEANS
      Lima Bean Skillet Meal                                          14
  MUSHROOMS
      Chicken Noodle Casserole                                        24
      Corn a la King                                                  16
      Creamed Mushrooms on Toast                                      18
      Peas De Luxe                                                    19
      Spaghetti Skillet Meal                                          28
      Tuna Curry Casserole                                            28
      Creamy Baked Beans                                              13
  PEAS
      Creamed Peas on Deviled Ham Toast                               18
      Creamed Salmon De Luxe                                          34
      Peas De Luxe                                                    19
      Peas French Style                                               16
      Savory Vegetables                                               12
      Tuna Vegetable Pie                                              31
      Vegetable Juice Cocktails                                       20
  SAUERKRAUT
      Sauerkraut with Apples                                          19
  SPINACH
      Poached Egg on Spinach                                          12
      Savory Vegetables                                               12
      Spinach Cheese Casserole                                        18
  SWEET POTATOES
      Baked Spiced Sweet Potatoes                                     20
      Sweet Potato and Sausage Casserole                              25
  TOMATOES
      California Seafood Salad                                        31
      Casserole of Tomatoes and Cabbage                               20
      Lima Bean Skillet Meal                                          14
      Luncheon Meat Chili                                             22
      Spaghetti Skillet Meal                                          28
      Tomatoes with Herbs                                             19
      Vegetable Juice Cocktails                                       20
  Meat
  CHICKEN
      Chicken Noodle Casserole                                        24
      Curried Chicken Soup                                            23
      Spaghetti Skillet Meal                                          28
  CORNED BEEF HASH
      Hot Corned Beef Hash Sandwiches                                 22
      Quick Corned Beef Hash Loaf                                     27
  DEVILED HAM
      Creamed Peas on Deviled Ham Toast                               18
  FRANKFURTERS
      Frankfurter Salad Bowl                                          21
      Spaghetti Skillet Meal                                          28
  LUNCHEON MEAT
      Baked Fruited Pork Loaf                                         25
      Breaded Luncheon Meat Slices                                    24
      Chef’s Salad                                                    23
      Luncheon Meat Chili                                             22
      Macaroni and Cheese with Luncheon Meat                          27
  POTTED MEAT
      Western Pancakes                                                21
  SAUSAGE
      Hominy and Vienna Sausage Au Gratin                             27
      Sweet Potato and Sausage Casserole                              25
  TONGUE
      Chef’s Salad                                                    23
      Tongue Supreme                                                  28
  TURKEY
      Chicken Noodle Casserole                                        24
      Spaghetti Skillet Meal                                          28
  Fish
  CRABMEAT
      Crabmeat and Macaroni Salad                                     34
      Seafood Coquilles                                               32
  LOBSTER
      Lobster Club Sandwich                                           33
      Seafood Coquilles                                               32
  SALMON
      Chilled Salmon                                                  33
      Creamed Salmon De Luxe                                          34
      Salmon Bisque                                                   22
  SARDINES
      Broiled Sardine Sandwich                                        29
      Sardines and Noodles, Polonaise                                 32
      Sardine and Olive Spread                                        32
  SHRIMP
      Shrimp Rice Casserole                                           29
  TUNA FISH
      California Seafood Salad                                        31
      Casserole of Tuna Fish and Corn                                 34
      Piquant Tuna Spread                                             29
      Tuna Curry Casserole                                            28
      Tuna Vegetable Pie                                              31
  Fruits and Desserts
  APPLESAUCE
      Applesauce a la Mode                                            35
      Applesauce Bread Pudding                                        42
      Applesauce Cake                                                 39
      Sweet Potato and Sausage Casserole                              25
  APRICOTS
      Apricot Ice Cream                                               40
      Fruit Juice Cocktails                                           41
  CHERRIES
      Cherry-Citrus Compote                                           35
      Old-Fashioned Cherry Shortcakes                                 44
  CRANBERRY
      Nectar-Fruit Juice Cocktail                                     35
  FRUIT COCKTAIL
      Fruit Cocktail Ambrosia                                         40
      Fruit Cocktail Fritters                                         39
  FRUIT NECTAR
      Nectar-Fruit Juice Cocktail                                     35
  GRAPEFRUIT
      Grapefruit Surprise Salad                                       44
  ORANGE JUICE
      Orange Muffins                                                  43
      Peaches in Orange Sauce                                         37
      Pear Cobbler                                                    46
  PEACHES
      Fruit Juice Cocktails                                           41
      Peach Almond Ice Cream                                          40
      Peaches in Orange Sauce                                         37
  PEARS
      Baked Cocoanut Pear                                             46
      Fruit Juice Cocktails                                           41
      Pear Cobbler                                                    46
      Pear Mint Ice Cream                                             40
      Pear Sundae, Chocolate Mint Sauce                               39
  PINEAPPLE
      Baked Fruited Pork Loaf                                         25
      Glazed Carrots and Pineapple Chunks                             14
      Nectar-Fruit Juice Cocktail                                     35
      Pineapple Cream, Crunch Topping                                 41
      Pineapple Meringue Cake                                         45
      Pineapple Meringue Pie                                          43
      Pineapple Sauce                                                 45
  PLUMS
      Individual Purple Plum Puddings                                 37
      Plum Sauce                                                      37
  PRUNES
      Baked Fruited Pork Loaf                                         25
      Prune Souffle with Custard Sauce and Toasted Almonds            42
  PUMPKIN
      Pumpkin Cake                                                    36
  Miscellaneous
  CHOCOLATE SYRUP
      Chocolate Refrigerator Cake                                     45
      Pear Sundae, Chocolate Mint Sauce                               39
  COCOANUT
      Baked Cocoanut Pear                                             46
      Fruit Cocktail Ambrosia                                         40
  COFFEE
      Coffee Milk Shake                                               40
  EVAPORATED MILK
      Pear Cobbler                                                    46
      Shrimp Rice Casserole                                           29
  NUTS
      Maple Nut Frosting                                              36
  SPAGHETTI
      Spaghetti Skillet Meal                                          28




                               VEGETABLES


    [Illustration: VEGETABLES]


SAVORY VEGETABLES

  1 No. 2 can vegetable (green beans, peas, spinach or asparagus, etc.)
  ½ teaspoon salt
  butter or margarine
  chopped chives or parsley

Drain liquid into a saucepan; boil quickly to reduce amount to about ½
to ⅓ cup. Add the vegetable; heat thoroughly. Add salt, butter or
margarine and seasonings to suit taste. Garnish and serve.
                                                       _4 to 5 Servings_

  Note: _Instead of reducing liquid by boiling, it may be saved for
  soups, sauces, gravies or vegetable cocktails. Do not throw it away as
  it contains valuable nutrients._


POACHED EGG ON SPINACH

  1 No. 2½ can spinach
  4 eggs, poached
  1 Recipe Savory Sauce

Heat spinach, drain and season with salt, pepper and butter. For each
serving use about ½ cup hot spinach; flatten top and arrange poached egg
on each spinach mound. Serve with Savory Sauce.
                                                            _4 Servings_


BEET RELISH SALAD

  1 No. 2 can sliced beets
  1 tablespoon sugar
  1 tablespoon minced onion
  1 teaspoon salt
  dash of pepper
  2 tablespoons salad oil
  ¼ cup vinegar
  6 lettuce cups
  ½ cup cottage cheese

Drain beets; reserve ½ cup liquor. Combine with sugar, onion, salt,
pepper, oil, vinegar and beet liquor. Cover; marinate overnight in
refrigerator. Arrange in lettuce cups. Top each serving with a mound of
cottage cheese. Serve with French dressing.
                                                            _6 Servings_


CREAMY BAKED BEANS

  1 1-lb. can baked beans in tomato sauce
  ¼ cup sour cream
  1 tablespoon Chili sauce or catsup
  1 teaspoon minced onion
  ¼ cup grated Cheddar cheese (1 oz.)

Combine all ingredients in a 1-quart casserole. Bake in a moderate oven
(350°F.) 25 minutes.
                                                       _3 to 4 Servings_


ASPARAGUS ON TOAST

  1 No. 2 can asparagus spears
  4 slices hot, buttered toast
  1 recipe Savory Sauce

Heat asparagus and drain; reserve liquor for soup, gravy or vegetable
juice cocktail. Arrange spears on toast. Serve with Savory Sauce.
                                                            _4 Servings_

  Note: _A thin slice of ham may be placed on the toast before arranging
  the asparagus, if desired._


SAVORY SAUCE

  2 egg yolks
  2 teaspoons finely chopped parsley
  1 teaspoon grated onion
  1 teaspoon sugar
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ¼ teaspoon paprika
  ⅔ cup milk
  2 teaspoons lemon juice

Beat egg yolks slightly in top of double boiler. Add parsley, onion,
sugar, salt and paprika and blend. Gradually stir in milk. Place over
boiling water; keep water in bottom of double boiler below bottom of top
section. Cook, stirring constantly, until smooth and thickened. Stir in
lemon juice. Serve immediately.
                                                           _⅔ Cup Sauce_


GLAZED CARROTS AND PINEAPPLE CHUNKS ⇒ _page 15_

  1 No. 2 can sliced carrots[2]
  ½ cup pineapple chunks with ½ cup juice
  1 tablespoon cornstarch
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  1 tablespoon butter

Drain carrots and pineapple. Reserve ½ cup carrot liquor and combine
with ½ cup pineapple juice; gradually stir into cornstarch and salt in a
saucepan. Cook, stirring constantly, until mixture thickens and clears.
Add butter and stir until blended. Add carrots and pineapple; combine
carefully. Heat thoroughly.
                                                            _4 Servings_


[2]Diced or Shoestring Carrots may be substituted.


CORN CHOWDER

  2 cups diced, raw potatoes
  ½ cup boiling water
  ½ teaspoon salt
  1 quart milk
  ¼ pound salt pork, diced
  ¼ cup finely chopped onion
  1 No. 2 can whole kernel corn
  2¼ teaspoons salt
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper

Cook potatoes in boiling salted water in covered 3-quart saucepan until
almost done; do not drain. Add milk to potatoes and heat to the boiling
point. Brown salt pork in a skillet. Remove pork; add onion to fat and
sauté 3 to 5 minutes. Add salt pork, onion and fat, corn and seasonings
to potato-milk mixture. Heat slowly to the boiling point.
                                                            _8 Servings_


LIMA BEAN SKILLET MEAL

  2 strips bacon
  3 tablespoons chopped onion
  2 tablespoons chopped green pepper
  1 cup chopped celery
  ½ cup tomato juice
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  dash of black pepper
  1 tablespoon flour
  1 No. 2½ can lima beans
  2 cups cooked rice

Dice bacon and sauté. Add onion, green pepper, celery and cook 10 to 12
minutes or until onion is yellow. Add tomato juice, salt and pepper;
stir in flour. When mixture is smooth and thickened, add lima beans and
simmer 5 minutes. Serve on hot rice.
                                                            _4 Servings_

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


GREEN BEAN AND ONION SALAD

  1 No. 2 can cut green beans, drained
  1 thinly sliced medium-sized onion
  ⅓ cup sliced radishes
  ¼ cup French dressing
  5 lettuce cups

Marinate beans, onion and radishes in French dressing for several hours
in refrigerator. Arrange in lettuce cups.
                                                            _5 Servings_


CORN A LA KING

  3 strips bacon
  ½ cup coarsely chopped celery
  1 No. 2 can cream style corn
  ½ cup coarsely chopped canned mushrooms
  2 tablespoons cream or top milk
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ⅛ teaspoon paprika
  6 slices toast

Cut bacon strips in half and sauté. Drain bacon, measuring 2 tablespoons
fat into a 1½-quart saucepan; add celery and cook slowly 10 minutes. Add
corn, mushrooms, cream or top milk, salt and paprika; heat thoroughly.
Serve on toast with ½ strip bacon crumbled over each serving.
                                                            _6 Servings_


HOT SPICED GREEN BEANS

  3 slices bacon
  3 tablespoons bacon drippings
  1 tablespoon chopped onion
  3 tablespoons vinegar
  ¼ to ½ teaspoon salt
  dash of pepper
  1 No. 2 can cut green beans, drained

Sauté bacon in a skillet; remove and break into small pieces. Sauté
onion in drippings until tender. Add vinegar and seasonings and blend.
Add bacon and green beans; mix together lightly and heat.
                                                            _4 Servings_


PEAS FRENCH STYLE

  1 No. 2 can peas
  2 tablespoons butter or margarine
  ¼ cup chopped onion
  2 cups finely shredded lettuce
  ½ teaspoon salt

Drain peas, reserving liquor for soup, gravy or vegetable juice
cocktails. Melt butter or margarine in a frying pan; add onion and sauté
until soft and golden brown. Add peas, cover and heat slowly over low
heat until peas are hot, about 5 minutes. Remove from heat. Add lettuce
and salt and toss lightly. Serve immediately.
                                                            _5 Servings_

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


CORN AND ASPARAGUS CASSEROLE

  1 No. 2 can whole kernel corn
  1 No. 300 can all green asparagus
  ½ cup milk
  2 tablespoons butter or margarine
  2 tablespoons flour
  ¼ teaspoon celery salt
  1 tablespoon chopped parsley

Drain corn and asparagus. Combine vegetable liquors and measure ½ cup;
add milk. Melt butter or margarine in a saucepan; add flour and blend.
Gradually stir in liquid; cook, stirring constantly, until smooth and
thickened. Add celery salt. Spread corn over the bottom of a shallow (10
× 6 × 2-inch) baking dish; arrange asparagus over corn. Pour white sauce
over vegetables and sprinkle with parsley. Bake in a moderate oven
(350°F.) 20 minutes.
                                                       _6 to 8 Servings_


BROILED KIDNEY BEAN SANDWICH

  1 No. 2 can kidney beans
  1 tablespoon finely chopped onion
  2 tablespoons catsup
  ¼ teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
  ½ teaspoon salt
  dash of pepper
  3 hamburger buns, split
  6 slices tomato (1 medium-sized)
  3 strips bacon

Drain kidney beans and mash. Combine beans, onion, catsup,
Worcestershire sauce, seasonings and heat thoroughly. Toast buns; spread
with bean mixture; and top with a thin slice of tomato. Cut bacon strips
in half and place one piece over each tomato slice. Broil slowly 10
minutes or until bacon is crisp.
                                                            _6 Servings_


CREAMED MUSHROOMS ON TOAST

  1 8-oz. can mushroom buttons
  ¼ cup butter or margarine
  2 teaspoons finely chopped onion
  ¼ cup flour
  milk
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  dash of pepper
  1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
  6 slices toast

Drain mushrooms and reserve liquor. Melt butter or margarine in a
saucepan; add onion and cook for one minute. Add flour and blend.
Gradually stir in mushroom liquor and enough milk to make 2 cups liquid.
Cook, stirring constantly, until smooth and thickened; add seasonings
and mushrooms. Heat and serve on toast.
                                                            _6 Servings_

_MUSHROOMS IN CHEESE SAUCE_—Omit onion and Worcestershire sauce. When
sauce has thickened, stir in ½ cup grated, sharp Cheddar cheese,
seasonings and mushrooms. Heat and serve on toast.


CREAMED PEAS ON DEVILED HAM TOAST

  1 No. 2 can peas
  milk
  ¼ cup butter or margarine
  ¼ cup flour
  1 teaspoon salt
  dash of pepper
  2 hard-cooked eggs, sliced
  1 2¼-oz. can deviled ham
  6 slices toast

Drain peas; combine liquor with sufficient milk to make 2 cups liquid.
Melt butter or margarine in a saucepan; add flour and seasonings and
stir until blended. Gradually stir in liquid. Cook, stirring constantly,
until mixture thickens. Carefully stir in peas and eggs. Spread deviled
ham on toast. Pour creamed mixture over toast.
                                                            _6 Servings_


SPINACH CHEESE CASSEROLE

  ½ lb. processed Cheddar cheese
  ⅓ cup milk
  1 No. 2½ can spinach, well drained
  1 cup soft bread crumbs
  3 strips bacon

Cut cheese in small pieces and place in top of a double boiler over
boiling water and melt. Gradually stir in milk; continue stirring until
sauce is smooth. Chop spinach and add to cheese sauce. Turn into a
greased 1-quart casserole. Top with bread crumbs, then bacon strips cut
in half. Bake in a moderate oven (350°F.) 30 minutes.
                                                            _6 Servings_


SAUERKRAUT WITH APPLES

  3 tart cooking apples
  1 No. 2½ can sauerkraut
  3 tablespoons butter
  4 to 6 tablespoons sugar

Peel and core apples; cut in eighths. Alternate layers of kraut and
apples in a 2½-quart saucepan. Add water barely to cover, bring to
boiling point; then reduce heat, cover and simmer until apples are very
tender (20 to 25 minutes). Add butter and sugar and blend, cooking
rapidly until almost all liquid has evaporated.
                                                            _6 Servings_


TOMATOES WITH HERBS

  1 No. 2 can tomatoes
  1 tablespoon butter
  2 tablespoons flour or 1 tablespoon cornstarch
  ½ teaspoon basil or marjoram
  ½ teaspoon sugar
  dash of salt
  dash of pepper

Drain tomatoes. Melt butter in a saucepan, add flour or cornstarch and
blend. Gradually stir in tomato juice. Cook, stirring constantly, until
smooth and thickened. Add tomatoes, basil or marjoram, sugar, salt and
pepper. Simmer 5 minutes.
                                                       _4 to 5 Servings_


PEAS DE LUXE

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  1 No. 2 can peas
  1 cup sliced celery
  ¼ cup liquor drained from peas
  ⅔ cup canned, sliced mushrooms
  3 tablespoons chopped pimiento
  2 tablespoons butter or margarine
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  dash of pepper

Drain peas and reserve liquor. Cook celery in pea liquor until almost
tender. Add other ingredients. Heat thoroughly.
                                                            _6 Servings_


CASSEROLE OF TOMATOES AND CABBAGE

  1 tablespoon butter
  2 tablespoons flour
  1 No. 2 can tomatoes
  1 tablespoon minced onion
  1 teaspoon sugar
  1 teaspoon salt
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper
  4 cups finely shredded green cabbage
  1 cup ½-inch bread cubes
  ¼ cup grated Cheddar cheese (1 oz.)

Melt butter in a saucepan; add flour and blend. Gradually add tomatoes,
stirring until smooth. Add onion, sugar, salt and pepper. Cook, stirring
constantly, until mixture is smooth and thickened. Place 2 cups of
cabbage in the bottom of a 1½-quart casserole, pour half the tomato
mixture over cabbage; cover with remaining cabbage and pour over
remaining tomato mixture. Cover and bake in a moderately hot oven
(400°F.) 30 minutes. Remove cover and top vegetables with bread cubes
and sprinkle with cheese; bake 15 minutes longer or until cheese melts
and cubes are a golden brown.
                                                       _5 to 6 Servings_


BAKED SPICED SWEET POTATOES

  1 No. 2½ can sweet potatoes in syrup
  2 teaspoons butter
  1 tablespoon brown sugar
  ¼ teaspoon cinnamon
  ¼ teaspoon salt

Drain sweet potatoes, reserving ¼ cup syrup. Arrange potatoes in a
shallow (8½ × 4½ × 2-inch) baking dish and dot with butter. Combine
brown sugar, cinnamon and salt and sprinkle over potatoes. Pour syrup
over all. Bake in a moderate oven (350°F.) 30 minutes. If a heavier
glaze on the potatoes is desired, they may be basted several times
during the baking period with the syrup in the pan.
                                                            _5 Servings_


VEGETABLE JUICE COCKTAILS

  ¾ to 1 cup juice drained from either peas, beans or asparagus
  2 cups canned tomato juice
  3 to 4 sprigs of celery leaves
  ½ teaspoon salt
  dash of pepper
  ⅛ teaspoon minced onion
  2 teaspoons lemon juice
  2 drops Worcestershire sauce

Mix together vegetable juices; add celery leaves; cover tightly and
chill for an hour. Remove celery leaves; add remaining ingredients.
Serve thoroughly chilled.
                                                            _5 Servings_

  Note: _If 1 cup of Asparagus Juice is used, mix with 2½ cups Tomato
  Juice._




                             MEAT AND FISH


    [Illustration: MEAT AND FISH]


WESTERN PANCAKES

  1 5½-oz. can potted meat
  4 eggs
  ¼ cup milk
  1 tablespoon finely chopped onion
  1 tablespoon flour
  2 tablespoons bacon fat

Combine all ingredients except bacon fat or shortening in a bowl. Beat
with a rotary beater until blended. Melt bacon fat in a frying pan. When
fat is hot drop mixture by tablespoonfuls into pan, spreading to form
flat round cakes. Brown on both sides.
                                             _4 Servings or 16 Pancakes_


FRANKFURTER SALAD BOWL

  1 12-oz. can frankfurters, drained
  1 No. 2 can kidney beans, drained
  ¾ cup sliced, sour pickles
  ½ cup French dressing
  1 medium-sized head lettuce
  ½ large onion, thinly sliced

Slice frankfurters and combine with kidney beans and pickles; add French
dressing and marinate for several hours in refrigerator. Break lettuce
leaves in salad bowl. Arrange onion rings and frankfurter mixture on top
of lettuce. Toss together lightly with fork and serve immediately.
                                                            _6 Servings_


LUNCHEON MEAT CHILI

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  ½ cup chopped onion
  ½ garlic clove, minced
  2 tablespoons fat
  ½ cup chopped green pepper
  1 12-oz. can luncheon meat, coarsely chopped
  1 No. 2 can red kidney beans
  1½ cups canned tomatoes
  1 teaspoon Chili powder
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper

Sauté onion and garlic in fat. Add remaining ingredients and simmer 30
minutes.
                                                            _5 Servings_


HOT CORNED BEEF HASH SANDWICHES

  1 1-lb. can corned beef hash
  ¼ cup sweet pickle relish
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  2 teaspoons grated onion
  16 slices bread, toasted and buttered
  2 medium-sized tomatoes, sliced

Combine hash, pickle relish, salt and onion in a frying pan. Heat
thoroughly and spread on 8 slices buttered toast. Top with tomato and
another slice of toast. Serve immediately.
                                                          _8 Sandwiches_


SALMON BISQUE

  1 7¾-oz. can salmon
  2 tablespoons butter or margarine
  2 tablespoons finely chopped celery
  2 tablespoons grated carrot
  3 tablespoons flour
  4 cups milk
  2 slices onion
  1 bay leaf
  salt
  pepper
  1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley

Drain salmon and remove skin and bones; flake. Melt butter or margarine
in a saucepan. Add celery and carrots and cook about 3 minutes; then add
flour and blend. Add milk slowly and cook, stirring constantly, until
smooth and slightly thickened. Add salmon, onion and bay leaf. Simmer
over very low heat 15 minutes. Remove onion slices and bay leaf. Season
to taste with salt and pepper. Garnish with chopped parsley, if desired.
                                                            _6 Servings_


CURRIED CHICKEN SOUP

  1 10½-oz. can condensed cream of chicken soup
  ⅔ cup light cream or top milk
  1 cup milk
  1 teaspoon curry powder
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  chopped parsley

Combine all ingredients except parsley and blend well. Chill thoroughly
or simmer 2 to 3 minutes and serve either cold or hot sprinkled with
chopped parsley.
                                                            _6 Servings_


CHEF’S SALAD

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  1 medium-sized head lettuce
  1 cup watercress
  ½ 12-oz. can luncheon meat, cut in strips (1 cup)
  1 6-oz. can tongue, cut in strips
  ½ cup drained, canned julienne beets
  ½ cup sliced celery
  3 hard-cooked eggs, cut in eighths
  1 teaspoon grated onion
  1 3-oz. package cream cheese, cut in ½-inch cubes
  ½ cup French dressing

Break lettuce into small pieces and place in a salad bowl. Add all
remaining ingredients except cream cheese and dressing. Just before
serving add cheese and French dressing and toss.
                                                            _6 Servings_


BREADED LUNCHEON MEAT SLICES

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  1 12-oz. can luncheon meat
  ½ cup dry bread crumbs
  1 egg, slightly beaten
  3 tablespoons fat

Cut luncheon meat in 8 slices. Dip slices of meat in bread crumbs, then
in egg and again in bread crumbs. Melt fat in a skillet. Fry meat in hot
fat about 5 minutes or until golden brown on both sides.
                                                            _4 Servings_


CHICKEN NOODLE CASSEROLE

  ¼ cup butter or margarine
  ¼ cup flour
  1 cup canned condensed chicken broth
  1 cup top milk
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  dash of pepper
  1 6-oz. can boned chicken or turkey, diced
  1 4-oz. can button mushrooms
  2 cups cooked noodles or spaghetti
  ⅓ cup chopped canned ripe olives
  1 tablespoon grated onion
  ½ cup slivered almonds
  ½ cup dry bread crumbs
  ¼ cup grated Cheddar cheese (1 oz.)
  2 tablespoons butter, melted

Melt butter or margarine in a saucepan; add flour and blend. Gradually
stir in chicken broth and milk. Cook, stirring constantly, until smooth
and thickened; add seasonings. Combine sauce, chicken or turkey,
mushrooms, noodles or spaghetti, olives, onion, and ¼ cup almonds. Turn
into a greased 1½-quart casserole. Mix together bread crumbs, cheese and
butter and sprinkle over mixture in the casserole. Sprinkle the
remaining ¼ cup almonds over bread crumbs. Bake in a hot oven (450°F.)
20 minutes or until top is nicely browned.
                                                   _6 Generous Servings_


SWEET POTATO AND SAUSAGE CASSEROLE

  1 8-oz. can pork sausage links
  1 No. 2 can sweet potatoes in heavy syrup
  1 No. 2 can applesauce

Drain sausage, remove excess fat, allowing a small amount of fat to
remain on each link. Grease a (10 × 6 × 1¾-inch) baking dish with
sausage fat. Drain sweet potatoes and cut in pieces to cover bottom of
the baking dish. Completely cover sweet potatoes with applesauce.
Arrange sausage links on top of the applesauce. Bake in a hot oven
(425°F.) 30 minutes or until sausage browns.
                                                            _6 Servings_


BAKED FRUITED PORK LOAF

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  1 12-oz. can luncheon meat, or chopped pressed ham
  5 slices canned pineapple
  20 whole cloves
  5 teaspoons brown sugar
  10 pitted canned prunes
  ¼ cup prune or pineapple juice

Cut luncheon meat or chopped pressed ham into 5 uniform slices and
arrange cut side down on the bottom of a shallow (10 × 6 × 2-inch)
baking dish. Place a pineapple slice on top of each slice of meat;
insert cloves in pineapple. Place teaspoon of brown sugar and two prunes
in center of each pineapple slice and add juice. Bake in a moderate oven
(375°F.) 30 minutes.
                                                            _5 Servings_

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


QUICK CORNED BEEF HASH LOAF ⇒ _page 26_

  1 1-lb. can corned beef hash
  1 tablespoon bacon fat, melted
  1 tablespoon catsup or prepared mustard

Remove both ends from can of hash; using one end push hash out in one
piece. Cut hash in half lengthwise; place the 2 pieces in a 9-inch pie
plate. Combine bacon fat and catsup or mustard; brush hash with this
mixture. Bake in a moderate oven (350°F.) 20 to 25 minutes.
                                                            _4 Servings_


MACARONI AND CHEESE WITH LUNCHEON MEAT

  ½ 8-oz. package macaroni
  ½ cup grated Cheddar cheese (2 oz.)
  ½ teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
  1 drop Tabasco sauce
  ½ 12-oz. can luncheon meat, cut in ½-inch cubes
  1½ cups medium white sauce
  1 tablespoon butter, melted
  ⅓ cup dry bread crumbs

Break macaroni in 2-inch lengths or use elbow macaroni. Cook according
to package directions and drain. Run hot water over macaroni and drain
again. Add cheese, Worcestershire sauce, Tabasco sauce and luncheon meat
to white sauce. Combine with macaroni. Turn into a greased 1½-quart
casserole. Combine butter and bread crumbs; sprinkle over macaroni. Bake
in a hot oven (425°F.) 15 to 20 minutes or until crumbs are browned and
mixture bubbles around the edge.
                                                            _6 Servings_

  Note: _For 12 servings double ingredients and turn into a 3-quart
  casserole._


HOMINY AND VIENNA SAUSAGE AU GRATIN

  1 No. 2 can hominy
  ½ cup milk
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper
  1 tablespoon butter
  ½ cup grated Cheddar cheese (2 oz.)
  1 4-oz. can Vienna sausage

Drain hominy. Place in a shallow, rectangular (8½ × 4½ × 2-inch) baking
dish. Add milk; season with salt and pepper. Dot with butter; sprinkle
with grated cheese. Arrange sausages over top and bake in a moderate
oven (375°F.) about 30 minutes. Sprinkle with paprika, if desired.
                                                            _4 Servings_

_Variation_: Substitute 1 No. 2 can Cream Style Corn for hominy. Omit
milk and butter. Combine seasonings and cheese with corn; arrange
sausages over top and bake as directed above.


TONGUE SUPREME

  1 No. ½ flat can tongue
  1 tablespoon butter or margarine
  1 teaspoon minced onion
  1 teaspoon chopped capers
  1 tablespoon vinegar
  ¼ teaspoon sugar
  ½ tablespoon flour
  ½ cup water
  1 tablespoon Chili sauce
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper

Remove tongue from can; reserve congealed liquor and cut in thin slices.
Melt butter or margarine in saucepan; add onion, capers, vinegar and
sugar. Simmer for 5 minutes. Add flour blended with water; cook,
stirring constantly, until mixture thickens. Add Chili sauce, salt,
pepper and congealed liquor. Serve very hot over thinly sliced tongue.
If desired, tongue may be heated while sauce is being made.
                                                       _3 to 4 Servings_


SPAGHETTI SKILLET MEAL

  1 6-oz. can chicken or turkey or 1 12-oz. can frankfurters
  ½ cup sliced onion (1 medium onion)
  ¼ cup chopped green pepper
  1 garlic clove, minced
  ¼ cup sliced canned mushrooms (optional)
  2 tablespoons fat
  1 15½-oz. can spaghetti in tomato sauce with cheese
  ½ cup tomato juice
  ¼ teaspoon salt

Drain meat; dice chicken or turkey or slice frankfurters. Sauté onion,
green pepper, garlic and mushrooms in fat 5 minutes. Add remaining
ingredients and simmer for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally.
                                                            _4 Servings_


TUNA CURRY CASSEROLE

  1 7-oz. can tuna fish
  3 cups cooked rice
  1 10½-oz. can condensed cream of mushroom soup
  ¼ cup water
  ⅓ cup sliced canned mushrooms
  1 teaspoon curry powder

Drain and flake tuna fish. Combine with remaining ingredients and turn
into a 1½-quart casserole. Bake in a moderate oven (350°F.) 30 minutes
or until mixture bubbles around the edges.
                                                       _5 to 6 Servings_


SHRIMP RICE CASSEROLE

  1 5-oz. can shrimp
  1 cup Cheddar cheese, grated (4 oz.)
  1 cup evaporated milk
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  dash of black pepper
  2 cups cooked rice
  2 tablespoons butter or margarine, melted
  ½ cup soft bread crumbs

Drain and clean shrimp. Combine cheese and milk in a saucepan. Place
over low heat, stirring constantly, until cheese melts and mixture is
smooth. Add seasonings and carefully combine cheese sauce, rice and
shrimp. Turn into a greased 1-quart casserole; top with buttered bread
crumbs and bake in a moderate oven (350°F.) 30 minutes.
                                                       _5 to 6 Servings_


BROILED SARDINE SANDWICH

  1 3¼-oz. can sardines
  2 English muffins, split or 2 slices bread
  prepared mustard
  2 to 4 thin slices processed Cheddar cheese

Drain sardines. Toast English muffins lightly or toast bread on one
side. Arrange sardines on toasted side of muffins or untoasted side of
bread. Spread lightly with mustard and top each with a slice of cheese.
Broil in pre-heated broiler about 3 inches from heat 3 minutes or until
cheese begins to melt. Serve immediately with sliced tomatoes.
                                                            _2 Servings_


PIQUANT TUNA SPREAD

  1 7-oz. can tuna fish
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon dry mustard
  few grains cayenne
  1 teaspoon flour
  1 teaspoon sugar
  1 egg yolk
  ⅓ cup milk
  1½ tablespoons vinegar
  1½ teaspoons butter

Drain tuna fish; reserve 1 tablespoon oil. Mix together dry ingredients
in top of double boiler. Add egg yolk and mix well. Stir in milk and
slowly add vinegar, then add butter and fish oil. Cook over boiling
water, stirring constantly, until mixture thickens. Remove from hot
water and stir in finely flaked tuna fish. This spread may be served hot
or cold. To serve hot: Toast bread on one side; spread mixture on
untoasted side. Place in a pre-heated broiler about 2 inches from heat
for 5 minutes or until lightly browned. To serve cold: Chill mixture
thoroughly. Use as a spread for open sandwiches or canapes.
                                                _4 to 5 Open Sandwiches_

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


CALIFORNIA SEAFOOD SALAD ⇒ _page 30_


                                _ASPIC_

  2 tablespoons plain gelatin
  ½ cup cold water
  1 No. 2 can tomato juice
  1 teaspoon chopped onion
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon celery salt
  1 teaspoon sugar
  2 tablespoons vinegar


                                _SALAD_

  1 7-oz. can tuna fish, flaked
  1 cup diced celery
  1 cup diced avocado (½ avocado)
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  dash of white pepper
  ¼ cup salad dressing
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  grapefruit sections
  avocado slices (½ avocado)
  watercress

_Aspic_    Soften gelatin in cold water. Combine tomato juice, onion,
salt, celery salt, sugar and vinegar in a saucepan; bring to boiling
point. Add to gelatin, stirring until gelatin is dissolved. Strain
mixture and pour into a 1-quart ring mold. Chill until firm.

_Salad_    Toss together lightly tuna fish, celery, avocado, salt and
pepper. Combine salad dressing and lemon juice. Add to tuna fish mixture
and blend carefully. Unmold aspic and fill center of ring with tuna fish
salad. Arrange garnish of grapefruit sections, avocado slices and
watercress around outer edge of aspic ring.
                                                            _6 Servings_

_For 12 Servings_—Increase gelatin to 5 tablespoons and double remaining
ingredients. Pour aspic into a 2-quart ring mold.


TUNA VEGETABLE PIE

  1 cup diced potatoes
  ½ cup sliced celery
  1 tablespoon chopped onion
  1 7-oz. can tuna fish
  1 No. 2 can peas
  1 pimiento, chopped
  ¾ teaspoon salt
  dash of pepper
  2 tablespoons flour
  pastry to cover 8-inch baking dish
  ⅓ cup grated Cheddar cheese

Cook potatoes, celery and onion in ¼ cup boiling, salted water until
almost tender; drain, reserving liquor. Drain tuna fish and peas,
reserving oil and liquor. Combine tuna fish, vegetables and pimiento and
turn into a shallow, round (8 × 2-inch) baking dish. Mix together salt,
pepper and flour; add to fish oil and stir to a smooth paste; gradually
stir in vegetable liquors. Pour over tuna fish and vegetables. Cover
mixture with pastry; sprinkle with cheese and bake in a moderately hot
oven (400°F.) 30 minutes.
                                                            _6 Servings_


SEAFOOD COQUILLES

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  1 6-oz. can lobster or crabmeat
  1 4-oz. can mushrooms, sliced
  ¼ cup butter or margarine
  ¼ cup flour
  1⅔ cups milk
  ½ teaspoon salt
  dash of pepper
  2 tablespoons chopped green pepper
  2 tablespoons dry bread crumbs

Drain lobster or crabmeat; remove hard fiber and flake. Drain mushrooms;
reserve liquor. Melt butter or margarine in a saucepan; add flour and
blend. Add milk to mushroom liquor to make 2 cups liquid (about 1⅔ cups
milk). Gradually stir into butter-flour mixture. Cook, stirring
constantly, until smooth and thickened. Add salt, pepper, green pepper
and seafood. Turn into individual casseroles or 1-quart casserole. Top
with bread crumbs and bake in a moderate oven (375°F.) 20 minutes.
                                                       _4 to 5 Servings_


SARDINE AND OLIVE SPREAD

  1 3¼-oz. can sardines in oil
  ½ cup chopped, stuffed olives
  2 tablespoons mayonnaise
  1 tablespoon Chili sauce

Mash sardines with oil until blended. Combine with olives, mayonnaise
and Chili sauce. Serve on crackers or small rounds of bread.
                                                          _1 cup Spread_


SARDINES AND NOODLES, POLONAISE

  ½ 8-oz. package wide egg noodles
  1 quart boiling water
  1 teaspoon salt
  1 15-oz. can sardines in tomato sauce
  ¼ cup fine dry bread crumbs
  2 tablespoons butter or margarine

Cook noodles in rapidly boiling salted water 9 minutes or as directed on
the package. Drain noodles; rinse with cold water and drain again. Place
in the bottom of a greased 1-quart casserole. Arrange sardines and sauce
on top of noodles. Brown crumbs in butter or margarine; sprinkle over
fish. Bake in a moderately hot oven (400°F.) 20 minutes.
                                                            _4 Servings_


LOBSTER CLUB SANDWICH

  4 slices bacon
  1 6-oz. can lobster
  12 slices toast
  butter
  1 large tomato, sliced
  lettuce
  mayonnaise

Fry bacon until crisp and drain. Drain lobster; remove any hard fiber
and flake. Measure 2 tablespoons bacon fat into skillet and sauté
lobster until golden brown. Remove crust from toast and butter one side
of 4 slices; cover with layer of lobster. Butter one side of 4 more
slices of toast and place over lobster, plain side down. On this piece
of toast place 2 half slices of bacon, then a slice of tomato. Cover
with lettuce. Spread one side of remaining slices of toast with
mayonnaise and place mayonnaise side down over lettuce. Insert
toothpicks to hold sandwich together and cut in 4 triangles.
                                                          _4 Sandwiches_


CHILLED SALMON

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  1 8-oz. or 1-lb. can salmon

Chill salmon thoroughly. Drain and remove skin. Arrange salmon on
platter or individual serving plates. Garnish with hard-cooked eggs,
cucumber wheels, radish roses, watercress, etc. Serve with
Cucumber-Chive or Olive-Celery Sauce.
                                                       _3 to 6 Servings_

_CUCUMBER-CHIVE SAUCE_—Combine ¼ cup heavy cream, whipped, ¼ cup
mayonnaise, 1 teaspoon lemon juice, ¼ cup coarsely chopped cucumber, 1½
teaspoons chopped chives or onion, and chill. (Approx. ¾ cup sauce.)

_OLIVE-CELERY SAUCE_—Combine ½ cup sour cream, ½ cup mayonnaise, 3
tablespoons chopped, canned ripe olives, ¼ cup chopped celery, and
chill. (1¼ cups sauce.)


CASSEROLE OF TUNA FISH AND CORN

  ¾ cup canned, drained whole kernel corn
  1 cup soft bread crumbs
  ½ teaspoon salt
  dash of pepper
  ⅛ teaspoon powdered thyme
  1 teaspoon minced onion
  ¼ cup milk
  2 tablespoons butter or margarine, melted
  2 tablespoons butter or margarine
  2 tablespoons flour
  ½ teaspoon salt
  1 cup milk
  1 13-oz. can tuna fish, drained

Toss together corn, bread crumbs, ½ teaspoon salt, pepper, thyme, onion,
¼ cup milk and 2 tablespoons melted butter or margarine. Melt 2
tablespoons butter or margarine in a saucepan; add flour and ½ teaspoon
salt and blend. Gradually stir in 1 cup milk; cook, stirring constantly,
until mixture is smooth and thickened. Flake tuna fish; add to white
sauce. Turn into a 1-quart casserole; top with corn-bread mixture. Bake
in a moderately hot oven (400°F.) 25 minutes.
                                                            _5 Servings_


CREAMED SALMON DE LUXE

  1 7¾-oz. can salmon
  ¼ cup butter or margarine
  ¼ cup flour
  dash of pepper
  1¾ cups milk
  1 tablespoon chopped anchovies
  1 cup drained, canned peas
  1 teaspoon chopped parsley
  5 slices toast

Drain salmon reserving liquor; remove skin and bones and flake. Melt
butter or margarine in a saucepan; add flour and pepper and stir until
blended. Combine salmon liquor with milk to make about 2 cups liquid.
Gradually stir liquid into butter-flour mixture. Cook, stirring
constantly, until smooth and thickened. Add salmon, anchovies, peas and
parsley. Heat thoroughly and serve on toast.
                                                            _5 Servings_


CRABMEAT AND MACARONI SALAD

  1 7½-oz. can crabmeat
  2 cups cooked macaroni (½ 8-oz. package)
  2 tablespoons chopped green pepper
  1 tablespoon chopped pimiento
  ¼ cup sliced celery
  2 tablespoons sliced radishes
  2 teaspoons grated onion
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  dash of Tabasco sauce
  ½ cup mayonnaise or salad dressing
  6 lettuce cups

Drain crabmeat; remove hard fiber and flake. Add remaining ingredients,
except lettuce, and toss together lightly. Serve in lettuce cups.
                                                            _6 Servings_




                          FRUITS AND DESSERTS


    [Illustration: FRUITS AND DESSERTS]


APPLESAUCE A LA MODE

  1 No. 2 can applesauce, chilled
  ½ pint vanilla ice cream
  nutmeg, mace or cinnamon

Divide applesauce in four serving dishes and top with a spoonful or
scoop of ice cream. Sprinkle ice cream with preferred spice.
                                                            _4 Servings_


CHERRY-CITRUS COMPOTE

  1 No. 2½ can Royal Anne cherries
  5 tablespoons sugar
  4 thin slices orange
  4 thin slices lemon

Drain cherries and reserve juice. Add sugar, orange and lemon slices to
juice and simmer gently 15 minutes. Add cherries and chill.
                                                            _8 Servings_


NECTAR-FRUIT JUICE COCKTAIL

  1 12-oz. can apricot, peach or pear nectar, chilled
  ½ cup grape juice, cranberry juice or pineapple juice, chilled

Shake chilled nectar thoroughly and combine with juice. Stir well to
blend. Serve immediately.
                                                       _3 to 4 Servings_


PUMPKIN CAKE

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  3 cups sifted cake flour
  5 teaspoons baking powder
  1 teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon cinnamon
  ¼ teaspoon ground clove
  ¼ teaspoon cardamom
  1¼ cups canned pumpkin
  ½ cup milk
  ½ cup shortening
  1½ cups sugar
  3 eggs

Sift together dry ingredients. Combine pumpkin and milk. Cream
shortening, add sugar gradually and cream together until light and
fluffy. Add eggs one at a time, beating thoroughly after each addition.
Add dry ingredients, alternately with pumpkin-milk mixture, a small
amount at a time. Beat until smooth after each addition. Turn into two
greased and floured 9-inch layer pans. Bake in a moderate oven (375°F.)
35 minutes or until done. Frost with Maple Nut Frosting.
                                                     _Two 9-inch Layers_


MAPLE NUT FROSTING

  ¼ cup butter or margarine
  2 cups sifted confectioners’ sugar
  3 tablespoons hot water
  ¼ teaspoon maple flavoring
  ¼ cup chopped walnuts

Melt butter or margarine. Add to sugar and blend thoroughly. Gradually
stir in hot water and beat until icing is of spreading consistency. Add
flavoring and blend. Stir in nuts. Spread between layers and on top of
Pumpkin Cake.
                                _Frosting for tops of two 9-inch Layers_


INDIVIDUAL PURPLE PLUM PUDDINGS

  1 No. 2½ can purple plums
  2 cups sifted flour
  4 teaspoons baking powder
  ½ teaspoon salt
  2 tablespoons sugar
  ¼ cup shortening
  1 cup milk

Drain plums; reserve juice. Cut fruit in half and remove pits. Sift
together dry ingredients. Cut in shortening. Add milk all at once and
stir only until all flour is moistened. Place about 2 tablespoons dough
in the bottom of each of 8 well-greased custard cups. Cover with a layer
of fruit and then the remaining dough. Cover cups tightly with heavy
waxed paper or aluminum foil. Place in a steamer or large shallow pan
containing 1 inch of boiling water. Cover and steam in a moderate oven
(350°F.) 45 minutes. Serve warm with Plum Sauce.
                                                 _8 Individual Puddings_


PLUM SAUCE

  2 tablespoons cornstarch
  ¼ cup sugar
  1 teaspoon cinnamon
  juice drained from 1 No. 2½ can purple plums or prunes
  1 teaspoon lemon juice
  1 tablespoon butter

Combine cornstarch, sugar and cinnamon in a saucepan. Slowly stir in
fruit juice. Cook, stirring constantly, until mixture thickens and
clears. Cook gently 3 minutes. Add lemon juice and butter; stir until
butter melts. Serve hot with Individual Purple Plum Puddings.
                                                    _Scant 2 Cups Sauce_


PEACHES IN ORANGE SAUCE

  1 No. 2½ can peach halves or slices
  ¼ cup brown sugar
  2 teaspoons cornstarch
  dash of salt
  ½ cup canned orange juice
  3 whole cloves
  3 whole allspice

Drain peaches; reserve juice and measure ½ cup. Combine sugar,
cornstarch and salt in a saucepan. Stir in ½ cup peach juice and orange
juice. Add spices. Bring to a boil, stirring constantly. Add peaches and
simmer 5 minutes. Cool. Serve with plain cream, whipped cream, or over
baked custard, tapioca or vanilla pudding or vanilla ice cream.
                                                       _6 to 8 Servings_

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


PEAR SUNDAE WITH CHOCOLATE MINT SAUCE ⇒ _page 38_

  ½ to 1 cup canned chocolate syrup, chilled
  2 to 4 drops mint extract
  1 No. 2½ can pear halves, drained and chilled
  ½ to 1 pint vanilla ice cream

Combine chocolate syrup with mint extract. Place 1 or 2 pear halves cut
side up in individual dessert dishes. Fill cavity of pear with ice
cream. Pour chocolate-mint syrup over ice cream.
                                                       _4 to 8 Servings_


FRUIT COCKTAIL FRITTERS

  1½ cups sifted flour
  1½ teaspoons baking powder
  1 teaspoon salt
  1 tablespoon sugar
  2 eggs
  ½ cup milk
  1 cup well-drained, canned fruit cocktail
  deep fat for frying

Sift together dry ingredients. Combine eggs and milk and beat well; add
to flour mixture all at once and stir only until all flour is moistened.
Fold in fruit cocktail. Heat fat to 375°F. Drop batter from a tablespoon
into fat and fry 5 minutes or until golden brown on all sides. Remove
from fat and drain on absorbent paper. Serve hot with maple syrup or
sprinkle with confectioners’ sugar and serve as a hot bread.
                                             _5 Servings or 15 Fritters_


APPLESAUCE CAKE

  2½ cups sifted flour
  1½ cups sugar
  1 teaspoon baking powder
  1 teaspoon baking soda
  1¼ teaspoons salt
  ½ teaspoon cinnamon
  ½ teaspoon cloves
  ½ cup shortening
  1½ cups canned, unsweetened applesauce
  2 eggs, unbeaten
  1 cup chopped, seedless raisins
  1 cup chopped walnuts

Sift together into bowl flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, salt
and spices. Add shortening and applesauce and beat 2 minutes either by
hand or with an electric mixer at medium speed. Add eggs and beat 2 more
minutes. Stir in raisins and nuts distributing evenly throughout the
batter. Turn into a greased and floured 5 × 9-inch loaf pan. Bake in a
moderate oven (350°F.) 1½ hours or until done.
                                              _One 5 × 9-inch Loaf Cake_


APRICOT ICE CREAM

  1 No. 2½ can whole apricots
  ½ to ¾ cup powdered sugar
  1 cup heavy cream

Drain apricots; reserve juice. Remove pits and force apricots through a
sieve. Combine apricots, juice and sugar; stir until sugar is dissolved.
Beat cream until stiff. Fold apricot mixture into cream. Turn into
refrigerator trays and freeze about 2 hours at coldest temperature until
almost solidly frozen. Remove from trays to a chilled bowl and beat with
a chilled beater until smooth. Return to trays; freeze until firm, about
3 hours.
                                                             _1¼ Quarts_


                             _VARIATIONS:_

_PEACH ALMOND ICE CREAM_—Substitute 1 No. 2½ can peach halves for
apricots. Reduce sugar to 2 tablespoons and add ¼ teaspoon almond
extract to peach pulp. Proceed as above.
                                                             _1¼ Quarts_

_PEAR MINT ICE CREAM_—Substitute 1 No. 2½ can pear halves for apricots.
Omit sugar and add 6 to 8 drops mint extract to pear pulp. Proceed as
above. Serve with chocolate sauce.
                                                             _1¼ Quarts_


COFFEE MILK SHAKE

  1 cup cold milk
  ½ cup cold, strong coffee
  1 tablespoon sugar
  cinnamon

Combine milk, coffee and sugar in a shaker or tightly covered jar and
shake until well blended. Serve immediately.

_Frosted Coffee Milk Shake_—add ¼ cup vanilla ice cream to the above
ingredients and shake until well blended. Serve immediately with a dash
of cinnamon.
                                _Makes 1 Large or 2 Medium-sized Drinks_


FRUIT COCKTAIL AMBROSIA

  1 No. 2½ can fruit cocktail
  ¼ cup honey
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  2 medium-sized bananas
  ¾ cup canned, moist, shredded cocoanut

Drain fruit cocktail; reserve ½ cup juice. Combine honey, lemon juice
and fruit juice. Slice bananas and arrange in the bottoms of 6 sherbet
dishes. Pour combined juices over bananas. Top with fruit cocktail;
sprinkle with cocoanut. Chill thoroughly.
                                                            _6 Servings_


FRUIT JUICE COCKTAILS

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  1 or 1¼ cups juice drained from canned fruit (peaches, pears,
              apricots, etc.)
  1 cup ginger ale
  2 teaspoons lemon juice

Chill fruit juice and ginger ale thoroughly. When ready to serve, mix
together; add lemon juice and serve in chilled cocktail glasses. Garnish
with lemon slices, mint and cherries.
                                                            _4 Servings_


PINEAPPLE CREAM WITH CRUNCH TOPPING

  1½ cups milk
  1 3-oz. package vanilla pudding
  1 No. 1 flat can sliced pineapple

Gradually add milk to vanilla pudding in saucepan. Cook over medium
heat, stirring constantly, until mixture thickens and boils. Cool
slightly. Drain pineapple; reserve juice. Place one slice pineapple in
each of 4 individual serving dishes. Gradually add pineapple juice to
pudding and stir until smooth. Pour over pineapple slices. This may be
eaten warm or cold. Just before serving, sprinkle with Crunch Topping.


_CRUNCH TOPPING:_

  2 tablespoons butter
  2 tablespoons brown sugar
  ½ cup cornflakes
  2 tablespoons chopped nuts

Melt butter in a small saucepan; add brown sugar and blend. Add
cornflakes and nuts and stir until all ingredients are well distributed.
Cool; sprinkle over top of Pineapple Cream.
                                                            _4 Servings_


PRUNE SOUFFLE WITH CUSTARD SAUCE AND TOASTED ALMONDS


                                SOUFFLE:

  4 egg whites
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  2 tablespoons sugar
  1 4¾-oz. can strained prunes


                                 SAUCE:

  1½ cups milk
  3 tablespoons sugar
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  4 egg yolks
  1 tablespoon flour
  ¼ teaspoon almond extract or ½ teaspoon vanilla extract
  2 tablespoons chopped toasted almonds

_Souffle_:    Beat egg whites until stiff. Add salt and sugar gradually
and continue beating until very stiff. Fold in prunes lightly. Turn into
an ungreased 1½-quart casserole. Place in a pan of hot water and bake in
a slow oven (325°F.) 1 hour or until a knife inserted in the center
comes out clean, or turn into the top of a well-greased double boiler.
Cover and cook over simmering water 1 to 1¼ hours or until done.

_Sauce_:    Combine milk, sugar and salt in a saucepan; scald. Beat egg
yolks well; add flour and blend. Slowly stir a small amount of the hot
milk into egg yolks, then add egg mixture to remainder of milk. Cook
over low heat, stirring constantly, until mixture coats spoon. Remove
from heat. Cool. Add almond or vanilla extract and chill. When souffle
is done serve immediately with custard sauce. Sprinkle with chopped
almonds.
                                                       _4 to 5 Servings_


APPLESAUCE BREAD PUDDING

  1 No. 2 can applesauce
  1 teaspoon lemon juice
  ½ cup seedless raisins
  1 tablespoon butter
  4 slices day-old bread
  ¾ teaspoon cinnamon
  2 tablespoons sugar

Combine applesauce, lemon juice and raisins and place half of this
mixture in the bottom of a greased 1-quart baking dish. Butter bread and
cut 3 slices in small cubes and the remaining slice in 4 triangles.
Place the bread cubes on top of the applesauce mixture. Mix together
cinnamon and sugar and sprinkle half of this over the bread cubes. Top
with remaining applesauce mixture and then with bread triangles, pushing
them down slightly into applesauce mixture. Sprinkle the remaining
cinnamon-sugar mixture over the pudding. Bake in a moderate oven
(350°F.) 30 minutes. Allow to cool before serving. Sweetened whipped
cream may be used as a topping, if desired.
                                                       _4 to 5 Servings_


ORANGE MUFFINS

  1½ cups sifted flour
  3 teaspoons baking powder
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  ¼ cup shortening
  ¼ cup sugar
  2 eggs
  ½ cup canned, unsweetened orange juice

Sift together flour, baking powder and salt. Cream shortening; add sugar
gradually and cream together until light and fluffy. Add eggs and beat
well. Add orange juice alternately with dry ingredients, a small amount
at a time, beating after each addition until smooth. Bake in greased
muffin pans in a hot oven (450°F.) 20 minutes.
                                               _12 Medium-sized Muffins_


PINEAPPLE MERINGUE PIE

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

  ¼ cup cornstarch
  ¾ cup sugar
  ½ teaspoon salt
  3 eggs, separated
  1 No. 2 can unsweetened pineapple juice
  1 tablespoon butter
  1 8-inch baked pie shell
  6 tablespoons sugar
  dash of salt

Mix together cornstarch, ¾ cup sugar and ½ teaspoon salt in a saucepan.
Add egg yolks and blend thoroughly. Gradually stir in pineapple juice.
Cook over low heat, stirring constantly, until mixture thickens. Add
butter. Cool. Turn into pastry shell. Top with a meringue prepared by
beating egg whites with 6 tablespoons of sugar and salt. Bake in a
moderately hot oven (400°F.) 6 minutes or until meringue browns.
                                                  _Makes One 8-inch Pie_


OLD-FASHIONED CHERRY SHORTCAKES

  1 No. 2 can red sour pitted cherries packed in water[3]
  ¾ cup sugar
  1 tablespoon cornstarch
  ¼ teaspoon cinnamon
  2 cups sifted flour
  4 teaspoons baking powder
  ½ teaspoon salt
  2 tablespoons sugar
  ¼ cup shortening
  1 egg
  milk
  ½ cup heavy cream
  2 teaspoons sugar

Drain cherries; reserve juice. Combine sugar, cornstarch, and cinnamon
in a saucepan; stir in cherry juice. Cook, stirring constantly, until
mixture thickens and clears. Add cherries and chill. Sift together
flour, baking powder, salt and sugar; cut in shortening. Beat egg
slightly in a measuring cup and add enough milk to make ¾ cup liquid.
Combine with flour mixture to make a soft dough. Turn out on a lightly
floured board and roll ½-inch thick. Cut with a floured 2½-inch biscuit
cutter. Place on an ungreased cookie sheet and bake in a hot oven
(450°F.) 12 to 15 minutes. Split biscuits; butter and spoon cherry
mixture over bottom half, cover with top half and spoon more cherry
mixture over this. Beat cream and gradually add 2 teaspoons sugar;
continue beating until stiff. Serve on top of shortcakes.
                                               _6 Individual Shortcakes_


[3]Cherries packed in heavy syrup may be substituted. Reduce sugar to ½
    cup.


  Note: _2 cups prepared biscuit mix may be substituted for flour,
  baking powder, salt and shortening. Add the 2 tablespoons sugar to
  biscuit mix. Add enough milk to egg to make ⅔ cup liquid. Proceed as
  above._


GRAPEFRUIT SURPRISE SALAD

  1 No. 2 can grapefruit segments
  1 3-oz. package orange or lemon-flavored gelatin dessert
  2 tablespoons sugar
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  6 to 7 maraschino cherries
  ½ 3-oz. package cream cheese
  2 tablespoons mayonnaise

Drain grapefruit segments, reserving juice. Add sufficient water to
juice to make 2 cups liquid; heat to boiling point. Pour over gelatin
dessert, to which sugar and salt have been added, and stir until
dissolved. Chill until mixture begins to thicken. Cut cherries petal
fashion by quartering at stem end and cutting almost to center. Place
one in the bottom of each individual mold, spreading out the petals.
Soften cream cheese; add mayonnaise and blend. Roll into balls and place
one in the center of each cherry. Line molds with grapefruit segments.
Pour slightly thickened gelatin carefully over grapefruit and cheese.
Chill until firm. Unmold and garnish with watercress and serve with
fruit salad dressing.
                                               _6 to 7 Individual Molds_


CHOCOLATE REFRIGERATOR CAKE

  ½ cup canned chocolate syrup
  3 eggs, separated
  ¼ teaspoon almond extract
  1 cup heavy cream
  12 lady fingers, split, or left-over cake

Heat chocolate syrup over hot water. Remove from heat; add egg yolks,
one at a time, beating vigorously after each addition until mixture
thickens slightly. Cool and add almond extract. Beat ½ cup cream and
fold into chocolate mixture. Beat egg whites stiff but not dry; fold
into mixture. Line a refrigerator tray first with waxed paper then lady
fingers or cake. Pour half the chocolate mixture over the cake; cover
with another layer of cake, then remaining chocolate mixture and top
with cake. Chill in freezing compartment 3 hours or until firm. Whip
remaining ½ cup cream and serve as a topping on cake slices.
                                                       _6 to 8 Servings_


PINEAPPLE MERINGUE CAKE

  ¾ cup sifted cake flour
  ¾ teaspoon baking powder
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  2 eggs
  ½ cup sugar
  ¼ teaspoon grated lemon rind
  1 teaspoon lemon juice
  1 No. 2 can crushed pineapple
  2 egg whites
  dash of salt
  ¼ cup sugar

Sift together dry ingredients. Beat eggs until light and lemon-colored.
Gradually add ½ cup sugar to eggs, beating constantly. Add lemon rind
and juice. Fold the dry ingredients gradually into egg mixture. Turn
into a greased 8-inch layer pan. Bake in a moderate oven (350°F.) 25 to
30 minutes. Remove from pan and cool. Drain pineapple; reserve juice for
sauce. Place cake on a baking sheet and spread crushed pineapple over
the top. Prepare a meringue by beating egg whites with dash of salt and
¼ cup sugar. Cover top and sides of cake with meringue. Return to oven
and bake in a moderately hot oven (400°F.) 6 minutes or until meringue
is lightly browned. Serve warm cut in wedges with Pineapple Sauce.
                                                            _6 Servings_


PINEAPPLE SAUCE

  2 tablespoons sugar
  1 tablespoon cornstarch
  dash of salt
  2 egg yolks
  1 cup pineapple juice drained from No. 2 can crushed pineapple

Combine sugar, cornstarch and salt in a saucepan. Stir in egg yolks and
beat until smooth. Gradually stir in pineapple juice. Cook over medium
heat, stirring constantly, until mixture thickens and clears. Serve with
Pineapple Meringue Cake.
                                                   _Makes 1¼ cups sauce_


BAKED COCOANUT PEAR

  1 No. 2½ can pear halves
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  ¾ cup canned, moist, shredded cocoanut

Drain pears; reserve juice. Sprinkle pears with lemon juice and roll in
cocoanut. Place, cut side down, on a greased cookie sheet or in a
greased, shallow, oblong baking dish. Bake in a hot oven (425°F.) 10
minutes or until cocoanut browns. Serve warm with Cinnamon Sauce.
                                                            _8 Servings_


CINNAMON SAUCE

  1 tablespoon cornstarch
  ½ teaspoon cinnamon
  juice drained from 1 No. 2½ can pear halves
  1 tablespoon butter

Combine cornstarch and cinnamon in a saucepan. Slowly stir in pear
juice. Cook, stirring constantly, until mixture thickens and clears.
Cook gently 3 minutes. Add butter and stir until melted. Serve warm or
cold over Baked Cocoanut Pears.
                                                         _1½ cups Sauce_


PEAR COBBLER

  1 No. 2½ can Bartlett pear halves
  ⅓ cup canned, unsweetened orange juice
  ¼ cup brown sugar
  1 tablespoon cornstarch
  few grains of salt
  1 tablespoon sugar
  1 cup prepared biscuit mix
  6 tablespoons undiluted evaporated milk
  ½ cup heavy cream, whipped (optional)
  2 tablespoons sugar

Drain pears and reserve ⅔ cup juice. Place pears in bottom of a shallow
(10 × 6 × 1¾-inch) baking dish, cut side up. Combine fruit juices, brown
sugar, cornstarch and salt and pour over pears. Place in a hot oven
(425°F.) for 5 minutes. Combine sugar and biscuit mix and add evaporated
milk to make a soft dough. Drop in 6 spoonfuls on top of pears. Bake 15
to 20 minutes longer at 425°F. or until biscuits are browned. If
desired, serve warm with heavy cream whipped with 2 tablespoons of
sugar.
                                                            _6 Servings_

  Note: Canned Peach Halves may be substituted for pears in this recipe.




                             The Can Opener


The can opener should be regarded as permanent equipment—not as a
kitchen gadget. The average home probably uses a can opener more
frequently than any other piece of small equipment in the kitchen.

There are dozens of makes of can openers on the market, ranging in price
from ten cents to several dollars. Some are made to be attached to the
wall—others are “hand” openers. Whatever type opener you prefer, you
should insist on good performance.


Requirements for a Good Can Opener

1. _Open the can easily._

2. _Open either a round or oblong can._

3. _Leave a smooth not a jagged edge. (The better openers roll back the
edge for perfect smoothness.)_

4. _Can be easily washed and dried._

5. _The cutting blades so placed that they may be sharpened. (Steel
knives in the kitchen need sharpening, but you don’t expect a cheap
knife to stand as many sharpenings as one of fine steel. The blades of a
can opener are steel knives designed to do a special job of cutting
through the metal of a can.)_


In addition to a regular can opener it is convenient to have an opener
especially designed for opening cans of liquid, such as fruit and
vegetable juices.

    [Illustration: WALL TYPE CAN OPENER]

    [Illustration: HAND TYPE CAN OPENER]

    [Illustration: JUICE TYPE CAN OPENER]

    [Illustration: CANCO
    tested
    HOME ECONOMICS SECTION
    American Can Company
    100 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK 17, N. Y.]

                                           A7-050-D.D. Printed in U.S.A.




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHOICE RECIPES AND MENUS USING
CANNED FOODS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
